hello and welcome back to micro one
this week's class is going to be a
little bit different in the sense that
we don't have one large solution concept
that we want to introduce
but we have a few different topics that
we want to cover
and the first of those topics is going
to be kuhn's theorem and related to
kuhn's theorem existence of subgame
perfect equilibria
now the motivation for this video is
summarized in this slide here which is a
visual representation of how we find sub
gain perfect equilibria
as we have discussed last week we're
going backwards through the tree and we
start with the signals and information
sets where we can find the solution by
backward induction
after we have done that we start with
the smallest sub games in this game and
we find the nash equilibria in all those
sub games
then knowing what
the continuation equilibrium are once
these nodes are reached we look at the
next larger subgames and try to find the
equilibria there
now the problem for existence of
supplement perfect equilibria is that
what we're guaranteed here in these sub
games
are nash equilibrium mixed strategies
but
a mixed strategy in one of those
subgames
is neither a mixed strategy nor a
behavior strategy in the entire game
right so here if we look at
player 2
then in the sub game here
in the nash equilibrium of the subgame
all the mixing is
realized here at this node
this is not a
mixed strategy an entire game where
all
of player 2's mixing is resolved at the
beginning of the game and it's neither a
behavior strategy where the mixing is
resolved at each individual information
set
so what we would like to have is we
would like to have a result that tells
us
under which condition
a
nash equilibrium strategies has some
kind of an equivalent nash equilibrium
in behavior strategies because four
behavior strategies mixing is done at
each information set and this is
consistent uh if we go backwards through
the tree
now the first thing we need to figure
out is what
what is the right notion here for
equivalence between strategies
so
two things should be satisfied by
in order for us to call strategy sigma i
and strategy sigma hat i
am equivalent i guess this should be an
i here not a minus sign
specifically
it can only be equivalent if
player i and all the other players earn
the same payoff in both of those
strategies
and then if we want to
find
or apply this to equilibria then we want
that incentives for the other players
remain undisturbed
so that for every other player
they're indifferent between
player i playing two equivalent
strategies
and one way how we can get this
is by imposing that
for any strategy profile of eyes
opponents
the induced distribution over the tree
is the same for sigma i and sigma hat i
and indeed this is sufficient for the
two conditions because
every outcome of the game is equally
likely every node in the game tree is
reached with equal probability and so
for all the other players it's exactly
the same whether player i plays sigma i
or sigma hat i so the second property
here is satisfied but also for player i
player i gets
the same payoffs and the same incentives
at all the intermediate points and so
realization equivalent here
is the notion that we are going with for
these extensive forum games
and the intuition
of how we find
equivalent mixed and behavior strategy
is the following
so the intuition and i've mentioned last
week that this intuition is somewhat
wrong but the intuition is that
every pure strategy
leads to a unique terminal node
and if that is the case
then
we can find for any behavior strategy
profile we can find a mixed strategy
profile
that chooses
the pure strategy that leads to that
terminal node
with
the probability with which this terminal
node is reached in the behavior strategy
profile
and for the converse if we start with a
mixed strategy profile
then
then we have a mixture of pure
strategies and in each of these pure
strategies we know
which action profile or which action is
played at which information set
and then
the mixture
of the mixed strategy
tells us essentially how frequently
those actions are chosen at information
set hi
so we normalize this by the total
probability with which the information
set is reached so that overall we have a
distribution
over actions available at information
set hi
now
the problem is there are two problems
the first one is that a pure strategy
profile
does not lead to a unique terminal node
and
the second problem is here that
we can't just define this for the entire
strategy profile we have to do this
player by player
and this is what we're going to spend
most of these videos on
so
first the most surprising
property here is that
not every terminal node can be reached
by a pure strategy
and the following example illustrates
that
the idea is that
i'm driving home late at night
and
it's a long highway a dark highway let's
say you live
somewhere in in ilan or something and
it's like 3 a.m at night nobody else is
on the road
and kind of all the exits look the same
and you're starting to forget whether
you have passed and exit or not
and you're driving on this highway
and
you optimally you would like to get home
um and your home is at the second exit
um
if you go out to early there will be
some hotel
and you spend the night at the hotel and
if you don't exit at all if you go all
the way to the end and you'll end up in
some bad neighborhood
and
the thing is here with no pure strategy
can you actually get home
because you have only information only
one information set
um
then
yeah there's one information set here
this means we cannot distinguish these
two nodes which means we forget whether
we have already passed an exit or not
so as long as we're on the highway we
forget what they've already passed and
exit
and a pure strategy
has to choose the same action at both of
these nodes so if we exit
then we end up at the hotel and if we
stay on the highway then we end up in
the bad neighborhood
but
the behavior strategy
where we choose
to exit the probability x at each node
and we continue with probability 1 minus
x leaves home with probability 1 minus x
times x
and this behavior strategy has no
realization equivalent mixed strategy
because
a mixed strategy is a mixture of pure
strategies and no pure strategies can
get home
now let's try to formalize this example
here into a result
and that's just the following here
so if we have an extensive form game in
which
there are no non there are no trivial
nodes so at all the nodes every player
has at least two actions available
then a behavior strategy
of any player has a realization
equivalent mixed strategy
if and only if
no two nodes in the same information set
are
or one node comes before the other in
the same information set so this means
no player forgets whether they have
taken a move
so if no player forgets or they have
then
each behavior strategy has a realization
equivalent mixed strategy
now this is
an if and only if result
so we have to prove both directions
and
the easier direction is that
that if it's not satisfied so if
there are two such nodes then there
cannot be a realization equivalent mixed
strategy
and this is just a generalization of the
example that we've had
so
so we suppose that the condition does
not hold
that
um
there is an information set with two
nodes in the same information set where
one node comes before the other
but then at the first node the first of
those nodes
there's one specific pure action that
has to be taken at that node for play to
reach x prime
and
this means that at this information set
in order to reach x prime
player i has to play some or this action
a i star
but then this means that they also have
to play a i star at x prime
and so any other action
played
or the note that is reached after any
other action is played at x prime
cannot be reached by
a realization equal mixed strategy
because it cannot be reached by a pure
strategy
the other direction is
more intricate
and for the other direction
suppose that the conditions are met
then we want to define a
so for each behavior strategy we want to
find define a realization equivalent
mixed strategy
and
the idea is basically we go through the
tree
and we see
with which probability
so for each pure strategy we look at
with which probability at each
information set
is
the action chosen that is prescribed by
that pure strategy
then we multiply
all of those probabilities together
to get
the weight that the mixed strategy
should assign to this pure strategy
so the first thing that we have to
verify is that this is indeed a mixed
strategy so we need to verify that the
sum of weights adds up to one
in order to do that
we will
represent a pure strategy
as a vector
where each component of the vector
corresponds to one information set by
player i
so
this is similar to how we abbreviated
the notation of subject imperfection by
simply listing the actions in the right
sequence
where each location in the sequence
corresponds to one information set
so here
we enumerate
all the information sets by player i in
any fashion so we have m different
information sets and then this vector
here means a i1 is played at hi1 ai2 is
played at hi2 and so on
and so all pure strategies can be
represented in this way
the entire set of pure strategies is
then this set here and like we've
mentioned this is a vector where each
component um crumbs comes from the right
set of actions
now to see that all of these weights do
sum up to one we use this representation
here
so if we sum over all pure strategies
then this is the same as for each
information set
we sum over all the possible actions
that can be taken at that information
set
and then
for all of those pure strategies we have
this product here of all the
probabilities with which the right
action is taken
at the information set
now
we notice here that
only the last term
only the information set m the action
taken at information set m
depends on the summation variable here
so all the others we can move outside of
the summation
and
this summation here the sum will be one
because
the probability that some action is
taken
at information set h i right because we
sum over all possible actions
this sum is one
and then iteratively
the entire product of these sums is one
so indeed
this strategy sigma hat is a
mixed strategy
and the next step will be to show that
they are
realization equivalent
now realization equivalent means that
they induce the same distribution over
the game tree
and
we need to make sure that this is true
for every possible strategy profile of
i's opponents
so what we want to define here is
we want to
decompose this probability
into a product of player specific
probabilities
so i want to say
we want to define for each player i the
probability rho i
that
player i takes all the right decisions
in strategy sigma i for play to reach x
and then because mixing is done
independently
across the players in either a behavior
or a mixed strategy
we then get that
the probability p sigma is indeed the
product of all those player specific
probabilities with which
they take the right actions for x to be
reached
and now
showing realization equivalent
is
identical to showing that
row i
for the behavior strategy and the mixed
strategy are identical
but before we can show this we need to
think a bit a little bit about how those
are defined
so
okay
we need to figure out the probability
that all the right decisions are taken
to reach node x
and so
in a game tree
we
we know that a node x is reached only if
play evolves along one specific path
and so we list all the actions or i'm
sorry all the nodes where player i is
the active player
on the path from the root to x
by x i 1 up to x i m i
so that
they are ordered in sequence
and then we denote
by a
of x i k
towards x
so this indicates the action that has to
be taken at this note here in order for
play to reach x and this action is
unique
now we can express the probability
with which
player i takes all the right decisions
for node x to be reached in the behavior
strategy sigma i
and it's the product
along this entire sequence with which
they choose the action that leads to the
next node on the sequence
now
for a mixed strategy
the probability that x is reached is
simply the probability that a pure
strategy is chosen that leads to x
right each pure strategy leads to a
deterministic path
through the tree and so we simply sum up
over all those pure strategies whose
deterministic path leads to x
so it means all the pure strategies
in this set six
they're all they all agree up to x and
they only differ in the continuation
game after x
okay having defined those two we need to
show that they are
equivalent for any
behavior strategy sigma i
if
players don't forget whether they have
taken an action
good
so
what we'll have to distinguish
here is
the information sets
that lie before x and those that lie
after x because in order to reach x only
those matter that are
that contain nodes before x
and yeah so we write h i of x i k here
the information set to which
node x i k belongs
now
this probability here
in the behavior strategy
is
the product
of
all the nodes all the information sets
um
with which the right action is taking
out all the information sets before
x
and
because
all the x i's are distinct
this is
a potentially a
non-zero
non-zero product
and
it's precisely equal to
the
probability with which
um
i assay as i h i
is chosen at h i
so this is for any pure strategy
that for which x is reached
the behavior strategy reaches x with
this probability here and it's the same
as this one here because
no two nodes lie in the same information
set
then
the second step is we
look at the probabilities
under the mixed strategy and show that
this coincides with the behavior
strategy
so by definition we sum up over all pure
strategies
whose play leads through x
and we plug in the definition of our
mixed strategy which was the product of
all the probabilities with which
the behavior strategy chooses the right
action
for
the pure strategy si
now we can break up this product here
into two components
so the first component
are
the probability at all the notes taken
before x
and the second product is all those
taken
not on the path from the root to x
now the first one is precisely rho i x
for
the behavior strategy sigma i
and we'll have to show
that the remainder
sums up to one
so rho i x sigma i does not depend on
the summation variable so we can pull it
out
of the summation and then
the remaining term we have to show that
this is equal to one
and this works in the same way as before
we can represent all the strategies
that
whose
all the pure strategies whose path leads
to x
we can represent this again
as a vector
for
over all the information sets
that the right decisions are taking all
the information sets outside
those information sets that lead to x
in the same way we can write this
sum over the pure strategies as the sum
over all possible actions that are taken
at those information sets
and then we can split the product and
each individual sum will sum up to one
and so as a consequence
rho i
x is the same for the behavior strategy
and to make strategy and this concludes
the proof
so this was
the case when
a behavior strategy has a realization
equivalent mixed strategy
now
what about the converse when is the
converse group when does a
mixed strategy have a realization
equivalent behavior strategy
so here is another motivating example of
when
um there are more mixed strategies
than behavior strategies
so the example here is that
the white house press secretary can
either state a fact or an alternative
fact during their press briefings
and
a government may not always want to tell
the truth to
the citizens sometimes they want to keep
certain facts hidden to make themselves
appear better
and
the crucial
component here is that the government
doesn't lie too frequently if they lie
too often then it might not be worth
reporting anymore because
there's no truth to the government
so they must lie sufficiently rarely to
maintain their credibility so this means
that they will probably mix between
um
so it's
some probability they will truthfully
tell a story and some other probability
they will
just lie in the story
now if they have
two consecutive press brief press
briefings then it's important that they
either
tell the truth or they lie in both press
briefings if they
tell the truth once and lie the other
time then it's going to be inconsistent
and it's going to be clear to everybody
that the government is lying
and so in a mixed strategy we can
accomplish that in a mixed strategy we
can
um
choose to
to lie to tell
an alternative fact twice
or we can choose
to
um
tell the facts twice tell the truth
and
a behavior strategy
is not possible to mix only between
or cannot mix only between those two
outcomes a behavior strategy will
necessarily mix
in also um
an inconsistent line
now the reason
why this happens or what goes wrong here
is that in this case player 1 forgets
not whether they have taken an action
but which action they have taken
and
this brings us to the following
definition of perfect recall so perfect
recall means essentially perfect memory
players don't forget
anything in the game
and we say that the game has perfect
recall if
they don't forget whether they have
already
taken an action so that was what we
looked at before
and then the second condition here
um
says that
essentially the path
from the root to any node x
and any node x
prime
path from x 0 to x and x prime
um
or
if we have two nodes from the same
information set x and x prime
then
the same information sets are traversed
on the path from the root to this
information set
so in the same order
and
i have to choose the same actions along
both paths
so this means that they don't forget
which actions that they have taken but
they also don't forget
any other actions that have been taken
by other players
such as
their opponents but also nature's moves
this means players don't forget the move
any other player has made or they
themselves have made
and so another way to say it is that
their information sets do not get
coarser so they don't forget anything
that have known at an earlier point in
time
and the main theorem of this video
kuhn's theorem
says that
if
player i has perfect or call in an
extensive form game
then every behavior strategy has the
realization equivalent mixed strategy
and vice versa
so this means yeah that we will be able
to use this equivalence for the
construction or the existence proof of
sub-game imperfect equilibrium
and
it means that for all those games where
players are not forgetful we can always
choose the methodologically simpler
behavior strategies
so why are behavior strategies simpler
well
one of them are is that
they're more in line with the dynamic
game um players mix sequentially um
whenever it's their decision rather than
once at the beginning of the game
and
like i've mentioned um last week in
class
they're also computationally simpler
because um
we can parameterize them with much fewer
strategies then we can make strategies
and the reason here is that in mixed
strategies we have to mix at the
beginning of the game for all the
possible information sets that we could
have
of all the possible mixing that we need
but
in
behavior standards we only need for each
information set once essentially
good
let's see the proof of it i mean half of
it we've already seen
the case where for a behavior strategy
there exists a realization equivalent
mixed strategy
now the other half of the proof is
actually quite a bit simpler than the
previous one so
what we do here is we start with
um
with a mixed strategy and we try to
define a realization call and behavior
strategy
so
so we start
with
a mixture of pure strategies
and perfect recall implies that the same
the set of strategies
that lead to
two nodes in the same information set
the sets of pure strategies that lead to
those nodes have to be the same
because along the path from the root to
these nodes they travel through the same
information sets in the same order
in that case the probability
with which player i takes the right
actions
for the for play to reach x coincides
with the right actions or the
probability that the right actions are
taken to reach x prime because it's the
same actions that have to be taken
so this means that the probability
with which it informat which put any
node in information that is reached does
not depend on the node and we can use
this to define
our row ihi
as the probability that the right
actions are taken for play to reach
information set h i
and now we can define
a behavior strategy by
dividing here by the probability with
which
information that h i is reached
so as i've mentioned before here
the mixed strategy captures the
probabilities
with which the different pure strategies
choose
action ai
and
all in all
this is a
distribution
over
um all possible actions that are
available at i information set hi
and so we can do this if
information that hi has reached a
positive probability and if it's not a
reasonable positive probability we can
let it be an arbitrary mixed action at
that information set
and then we have to show that they are
realization equivalent
again for node x we look at the sequence
um at the path from the root to x and
denoted by x i k to x i m i
and
we denote by h i k the corresponding
information sets
now
what we have to compare
is
or whether these player specific
probabilities are the same for the mixed
strategy and the behavior strategy now
for the behavior strategy this was given
by the product
that all the right decisions are taken
along the path
so let's first see if we can simplify
this the probability with which
the right action is taken at some
information set h i
k so the first thing we note that the
right decision taken
at x i k to reach x
is the same as the right decision taken
to reach the next node in the sequence
now here we can plug in the definition
of our behavior strategy
and then
we can use
the fact that all the pure strategies
um
that take the right decision
for
node x i k plus one to be reached
are precisely all those pure strategies
for which x i k plus 1 leads on the path
and
if you remember this summation here for
mixed strategies was precisely
the probability with which all the right
decisions are taken for play to reach x
i k plus one
and
the denominator here this is the same as
any x i k in information set h i k
and
then in order to
re-express the probability with which
all the right decisions are taken in the
behavior strategy for play to reach x
the definition here was it was this
product
now each term of this product is given
by this ratio here and we see that this
is a telescopic product so for each term
we will see that
the numerator will cancel with the
denominator of the next term
so precisely two terms remain the very
last one which is
the probability with which node x is
reached
and
divided by one which is the probability
that player i takes the right decision
for player i's first information set to
be reached
but since player i doesn't take any
decisions before their first information
set that probability is one
so we see that indeed this definition
gives us a realization equivalent
behavior strategy
good
now that we know this
that we know that in any game of perfect
or call
a
mixed strategy has a realization
equivalent behavior strategy
we can prove existence of game perfect
equilibria in behavior strategies and
precisely we do this in games with
perfect recall
now
the logic of the proof is exactly how we
find sub-game perfect equilibria
backwards through the tree
so
we denote by gk
all the
all the proper sub games of the game
that contain k strict subgames
and
this means that the smaller sub games
are in g0
um because they don't have any other
strict subgames we can just find a mixed
nash equilibrium in the subgame and then
by coons theorem transform
this into a nash equilibrium in behavior
strategies
now for the inductive step
we assume that
every sub-game
in the set gk
has a sub-imperfect equilibrium and then
we want to show that
any sub game in
this
larger set
also has a sub game perfect equilibrium
so the way we do this is we start with
any nash equilibrium in the game we know
that it exists
in make strategies
and
what we want to do here
is
we look at
all nodes in the sub game
so first
so x x star here are all the nodes in
the sub game that we look at
x s are all the nodes
that start strict subgames and then xs
prime are all those notes
that start maximal sub games off the
path
to this condition here means that there
are maximal sub games not contained in
any other sub game
and the first condition is that they are
off the path
now from last week we know that we only
need to refine sigma here
off the path
now
yeah we choose
for all those maximal subgames off the
path we choose
a continuation sub imperfect equilibrium
and
everywhere else we keep the nash
equilibrium
and we want to verify that this is
indeed sub-game perfect while on the
path we already know that nash
equilibrium is optimal
and then the restriction to any subgame
is also nash equilibrium
either
by the definition of a subgame perfect
equilibrium
right so on the continuation game in the
maximal sub games
we have a stop game perfect equilibrium
which means that in any
sub game of those sub games so in any
non-maximal sub game
it's a nash equilibrium by definition of
a subgame perfect equilibrium
and then on the path
it's
or the optimal because the nash
equilibrium is optimal
and so sigma hat is indeed a subject in
perfect equilibrium in the
game that starts here and then
um
yeah
that's that's already the proof
good
so
yeah proof heavy video but um
i hope it was instructed
then
what have we seen that well mixed and
behavior strategies aren't always the
same so if players forget that they've
already taken an action then there are
behavior strategies without realization
equivalent mixed strategies
and if players forget the information
they have once had such as their own
move opponents moves or nature's moves
then there are mixed strategies without
realization equivalent behavior
strategies
in the class we will look at an example
of imperfect recall and see how we can
find mixed as well as
um behavior
nash equilibrium
yeah so when do we actually use games
with imperfect recall well
there's
two reasons why we might want to study
this the first one is if we look at
games with bounded rationality
if we say okay we simply don't have the
cognitive power to
remember everything in an infinitely
long game
and then we can study
bounded rationality by imposing that
they have bounded recall
another application is if we have
repeated games with private information
then
perfect memory actually makes it more
difficult to find equilibrium
and in that case it might be we might
want to simplify the model by imposing
boundary recall on the players
good that's it
there's some questions for you to answer
about
mixed behavior strategies and perfect
recall
and
the literature
again this topic is covered in any game
theory textbook and the original paper
that introduced it was by
alright that's it for this video and
i'll see you in the next one